---
layout: page
title: Granny Ria
excerpt: Poems
author: C.S.Luc
image: 13.jpg
options: [minihead]
categories: writings
permalink: /writings14/
---

When I first met Ria, she was 84, and she did not expect to see me in Trnava train station, where she was waiting for her granddaughter, Dianka. She thought I could speak Slovak and greeted me in such. Her hair corn-silk gold and soft, her face gentle etches of age, and an impeccable smile so avuncular that in spite of her obvious Caucasian features, I was immediately reminded of my own grandmother who died long ago when I was 16. 

We began to walk from the train station to my hotel. Ria, reticent by age but still debonair by nature, asked me her first question: “Are you a student?” “No longer.” I probably looked young in her eyes. I probably would look young even if I were in my 40’s or 50’s simply because of her advanced age, just as I would consider a person in his 20’s to be young. Comparison does have certain magic. We walked along the quite Slovak small town street. It’s a Sunday afternoon; not many souls could be seen. The rural atmosphere matched the silver-grey dusk sky harmonically in color and feelings. We chatted aimlessly but with mutual curiosity. 

She is about 5’5’’ tall and with a healthy thin look. Her eyes deep in the sockets but their glistening sights agilely projecting out whenever she talks---a childish old lady she is! As a pious Catholic church-goer, she pointed me to multiple churches along the way. The town may be lack of commercial energies and stimulations, but it is surely equipped with plenty of churches. Dianka explained that it is the most religious town in the country, or even in central Europe, and was called Little Rome. 

Those churches were most built in the 14th century; one of them even has a tint of architectural style often seen in Buddhist Temples. Farther away, but still in clear sight range, a faint sienna brick-wall was winding along and surrounding this town, suggesting silently a history of territorial offense and defense, which are usual signs of inevitable sinful nature of human beings.

I asked whether the local people hate Germans for their invasion during the Second World War and she said no. Dianka supplemented that indeed if there were any residual negative feelings, they were more towards the Hungarians, who attempted conquering frequently in past times. Truly in this country I have not seen anyone with an aggressive nature. People all have this calm and non-spoiled spirit. It may be too general to draw this conclusion, but until proven wrong, I'd happily indulge in this naive observation. 

Ria lives alone. Her husband died a few years ago. Her two daughters were married and have their own family; one in Bratislava, the other London. She has a total of nine siblings; one of the brothers lives in a village bordering on the outskirt of a forest that she loves to go often. Her daughter and grandchildren often call her and Dianka, who lives in Bratislava, visits her once a week. She has a garden to care and the church cares her soul. She has old friends and occasionally goes out for ice-cream cones. In winter, when boredom collects more intensely, she would go to cinema. She is peaceful. But she misses her husband, William, his name is, so much that the void of his former presence could not be filled by anything in this world, even the God's consoling. 

Yes, she misses him. I asked whether she ever stopped loving him during their long marriage. No is her absolute answer. "He is a good man, a religious man forced to be a communist to avoid the extreme poverty for the family. He is a good communist, too good for me. I often tease him." She smiled when narrating their relationship. Death is not harmful in her mind. William is in heaven waiting for her, she must think that. The worldly sorrow is minor and acceptable, like weather, like a slight fragrance of honey hovering above the sweet memory. Oh, memory! She remembers the Russian soldier held her in his arms while she was only 6, and contemptuously with this affectionate gesture, his companies were robbing her family in a sick, fake-friendly fashion. They took their horses. Her father was furious about this emotional juxtaposition displayed by these soldiers, but to avoid the bullets, he had to suppress his anger and feign friendliness, while watching the unfolding of that cruel theatrical performance. 

We walked miles. She did not show any sign of fatigue. The comforting breeze made her hair dance now and then like a little child without skills but full of energy. For some reason, she likes me, and her affection was transparent. She pointed to a tree embroidered with white small blossoms, and asked whether I knew what kind of flower it was. "Jasmine!" I sanguinely exclaimed, thinking of that traditional folk song popular in China with the same title. We were walking along the town-wall and different trees appeared in our sight in phantasmagoria. Her steps were small but pace fast. I asked which period of life she enjoyed most. "When I was young.” She laughed. She is a beautiful lady at this age and surely she was beautiful when young, which I witnessed through the photos of her youth. But somehow she does not believe in her own beauty. She has never truly believed when people told her how beautiful she is. She characterized such comments as polite jokes. The uncertainty about her physicality grants her an additional layer of humbleness. In her youth, she helped parents with the farm labor; the household chore molded a pair of capable hands. 

A beautiful girl who does not believe in her own beauty is prone to be one who does not take flattery or spoil as granted. The lack of confidence on one's appearance usually enriches one's tenderness of heart. I have seen so many pretty people, men and women, underwriting their life with physical gifts from God and abusing their otherwise charm to a degree that the bottom-line respect and decency are violated. So in that dimly lit living room of hers, the decors of which is similar to my granny's, at the moment of examining her photos in her 20's, my eyes were shifting between the photos and her, who was standing beside me and looking at me with a tentative smile; my mood was also alternating between sweet sadness and peaceful joy. We are all destined to oblivion; beauty, memory, materials, none of them will escape such fate. As a Christian, perhaps I should use the term "transition" to replace "oblivion," but the gist remains the same. Life is condensed nicely in her small but neat room (though she thought it was messy), from her 20's in the photo to her 80's as of now; life is sustained here as well--- in this very apartment, she and William spent 30 years together as wife and husband. Now William is gone, and she stays, for countable years longer, but still temporarily. The plants, flowers, linen table cloth, glasses, and dishes will transfer to a different owner or be simply deserted once she leaves this world, too. 

She poured a glass of Rose for me and inquired dearly "Tonko, would you like some pancakes?" In doing so, she took out chocolate, potato chips from nowhere like a magician and with zeal like a family. My stomach was still overwhelmed by the delicious food previously we had. But I could not refuse such a grandmother kindness. Sometimes we ate not because we are hungry, but because our loved ones think we should eat. When the night turned older, I was thinking about leaving for my lodging. I am an untypical man with regard to sleep because I usually go to bed at a relatively early time, eleven, and Ria is an untypical old lady. She goes to bed at one or two, and gets up at eleven in the morning. In days her daughter may call here at an earlier hour to check on here, she would feign a level of sobriety to avoid the daughterly scolding. I wonder what she would think about during the evening hours, when quietude and solitude arise, and what kind of memory would repeatedly flash in her neural geography. I cannot fathom the panorama of such reminiscence. Dianka told me Ria often debated with her son-in-law regarding which regime is better, the former communism or current capitalism. She preferred the communism because everyone back then had a job and no one worked 12 hours a day to skip the time with family. A few hours ago, during our walk, she specifically showed me the old sugar factory once prosperous in the time of communist reign. The factory was sold to private parties after the communism fell and the use of it is known to no one anymore. I saw the grandeur chimney and building stood in a bleak block, casting lonely shadows in the last light of the sunset. We, be it an individual or government, each strives to find the suitable role in this world; most of us probably fail such efforts when the end comes. So what is achievable? Perhaps a certain purity, the purity of dream, the purity of goal, the purity of love; without such purity, life can be a cruel and unacceptable failure for many. 

I proposed to order a taxi back to hotel, but Ria and Dianka insisted on walking me back. It would be a forty-minute walk from her apartment and at such late hours, it's not appropriate even to me, who seldom considers security as a high priority. Besides, she is 84 after all, can she really walk another 80 minutes at this hour, especially after all the physical activities in the day? I expressed my concern but they both persisted that they would enjoy such nocturnal perambulation. This is most likely unimaginable to my folks in China, where a lady must be seen off by a gentleman, never the other way around. But I accepted their suggestion eventually. If safety is not a concern, why let social protocol dictate our own will? I have seen too many people sink in certain etiquette and regard them as Moses’ Ten Commandments, while all along the true respect and understanding are ignored completely. What a shame that the ponderous politeness often defeats the sincere truth. 

So we walked again, through the quieter streets and tress. The stars shimmering, their remote lights joined the modern man-made lamp radiations, after millions of years' traveling across the universe, and finally reached our shoulders, so gentle and invisible, like a secret lover's murmuring. My bag was stuffed with two of her hand-made pancakes and one persimmon, which would be may next morning's breakfast. She exhorted me to put them in refrigerator once I return to my place. 

At around 11pm, we reached the ancient church, whereby my hotel was located. She hugged me, kissed me on both cheeks with an emphasized weight of lips, and implored me to come back again when I can. Then they turned their backs and walked towards home. I looked at them for about five seconds, their steps on the abraded cobbles were tender drum beats on my heart; their bodies became smaller in the Creator's night painting. I turned back and also walked away. 

Next morning, I received a message from Dianka, saying that Granny told her she hadn't met a beautiful person like Tonko for a long time. I thought Ria is a thief, stealing my thought, because these are the exact words that I intended to tell her. 

Goodbye, Granny Ria, I am sure I will see you again, in this world or the other. 

With love,   
C. S. Luc

June 8, 2016, Bratislava

****

By C. S. Luc