---
title: Game and Elegy
excerpt: Poems
author: C.S.Luc
image: 01.jpg
date: 2015-01-11 16:04:00 +0300
options: [minihead]
categories: writings
permalink: /writings05/
---

## Game and Elegy

Who would imagine

Through a microscope a pernicious virus

Shines like a crown of classical antiquity

That could be befitting Arion or an elegant queen 

Blessed is the invisible form, of symmetry, of beauty

 

Who would then refute

That Beauty is inferior to survival,

Yet zealously worshipped by the survived.

As if, a poisonous butterfly is devil

while the specimen of it becomes angelic

 

In swirling dizziness,

Mankind crashes into architectural complex of modern design

Tasting the Spring's sweetness with the cautious tongue of a prisoner

Both in metaphor and in reality.

The Octopus-spreading houses, domes, and highrises.

Trapping human beings like monstrance to scared bones.

 

Cursed, and defeated in numbers

Human V. Virus

What a sacrificial game

The aged and the weak are natural pawns

For the poetry of disease is beating the elegy of humanization

For no one is spared while confronting a horrendous tragedy

 

Then who? Who keeps a sliver of reserve and compassion?

Who keeps the lucidity of hope, the intensity of sentiment?

Who feeds you first before herself?

Who worries about your restfulness during her insomnia?

Who smiles at the presence of you on her deathbed?

Who prays for you while you don't believe in redemption?

 

This Spring is fantastic

All its components are in a short mile's reach 

Real flowers are colorful

Causing vertigoes and anachronistic ballads to bees

And genuine tears are hot and heavy

For which reason they are magma of heart

And for which reason you don't need many 

To shower in their armor to face the long haul

of a singular pandemic

Of a singular life...