---
layout: page
title: Enigma of One's House
excerpt: Poems
author: C.S.Luc
image: 13.jpg
options: [minihead]
categories: writings
permalink: /writings13/
---

/ C. S. Luc

A bachelor owning a big house is categorically improper, which I did not know until I own one. 

 

Looking back, I think it’s the eye-soothing sunlight in that upstairs sunroom that propelled me to buy the house.  The surrounding trees and colorful autumn hills also played a favorable diplomatic role.  

 

Imaginations, rather than utilities, dictated my decision-making process. All I could think of when I made the purchase was I could enjoy the quietude and solitude in a picturesque village, where I could paint, hunt and possibly have a peaceful family life. The phantasmagoria of sun, sunflowers (in Van Gogh style), cats, dogs, sheep, chickens, even kids, were still concocting a vivid memory of a potential life that I envisioned for myself. In that romantic mood the title of the house transferred to me, legally and emotionally. 

 

Romance fades, just like most of things in life. The fact is for the years after the purchase, I have only spent a few weeks total in the house. Though during each visit, I would be reminded of its breathtaking beauty and serenity, it does not change my pattern of life, that I , against my theoretical appreciation of the nature and a quasi-farmer life style, in actuality, I have preferred the cultural diversity and richness, which are only present in relatively big cities.

 

There was one time that I filled the house with a few musical instruments—a grand piano, hundreds of books, and even an easel, contemplating a self-sufficient culturally adequate life. The result was disappointing. After all these efforts, when solitude reached a certain level, it was maddening. Without seeing another soul for a straight few days, my eyes would be hunger for the sight of another live person, and my mouth eager for linguistic movement. A need for communication, for sharing, would arise insurmountably. Again, I did not acknowledge that need until I own the house.

 

By analogy and a slight exaggeration, I surmise any ownership of a vast space or even freedom that cannot be filled or fulfilled proportionately will merely render a huge void, in either a physical or emotional sense, depending on what you own.  That comes with the appeal of the slim-fit minimalism. For the most of time when I am in America, I live in a two-bedroom condo, the balcony of which faces a sylvan façade of hill. It’s a twenty-minute drive away from the city, from the usual metropolitan possibilities such as fine restaurants, fine concerts, and fine ladies (pardon my male-driven emphasis here). I also have neighbors, with some of whom I do occasionally have a chat.  

 

Living in that condo does enable me to access to the common vicissitudes of life; it makes me feel more civil, more balanced, though I do not claim to truly fathom the definition of a balanced life.

 

For the time that I spend on traveling in different continents, the global economy and my gradually cultivated tendency towards bodily comfort (what a shame the aging has done to me), I would usually stay in nice hotel rooms with a decent view or some fresh local flowers. Now and then, for curiosity or demonstration of friendly intimacy, I would agree to stay at friends’ places, assuming such free lodging providing necessary amenities. 

 

Among these three living situations, being in a big house, a moderate apartment, or a hotel/guess room, I find practicality wins a significant margin in my case. As a man neither spoiled nor consciously luxury-recusant, I presume my preference speaks for a universal centrist position. Or maybe not.

 

After all, my life path cannot be characterized as usual. As a person who spends a majority of his waking time at home, I probably should seek the reference to the psychological composure of a housewife. There are certainly other artists who can provide some prototype of life style mold. I can safely assume a housewife would have a husband and perhaps a couple of kids; therefore, the sheer number of the household demands a bigger space and each member of the household will add the character and element to it, all of which may alloy the complexity and quotidian into a mirage, the true nature of which cannot be discerned by the outsiders, not mention a bachelor like myself. 

 

Then more likely I can find resonance with other single artists, who are simultaneously proud of and suffering from the deficiency of human intimacy on a daily basis. I believe that holds true even for those who do have significant others because an artist is often self-imprisoned in her own mind. This mind will absorb energy from the world, but it shuts off like a clam whenever it feels full. Then the process of digestion, creation and consumption cycles repeatedly. I intuitively feel that a mind of such nature only finds comfort in a not so spacious living environment, for the extra will present a sense of void and waste, and even a tangible pressure of discrepancy between what’s available and what’s necessary. 

 

The notion that art relates to luxury seems to me boarding on the edge of cliché. Yes a king requires a palace to live; yes, the palace may have an artistic design, decoration or atmosphere, but the art involved has nothing to do with the king who mandates luxury. There is no cause-effect or any mutually dependent relationship between art and luxury. My point comes back to my original observation that a bachelor, especially one who engages in art, will likely feel awkward about living in a big house. The variation of this conclusion may draw a moral hint, i.e., any excessive consumption of resources, be it space, material, money, emotion, is an unattractive phenomenon in my eyes. 

 

Thus I find myself in a wrongful place to own a big house. The riddance of it has become a priority. It’s like benign tumor or an ugly tattoo one wishes to remove. The house consumes me, both monetarily and philosophically.

 

It does not mean I have stopped getting joy from it anymore. It only means the scale tips towards the more negative side. Indeed, when riding horse with Amber, a precocious sixteen-year old girl, the rural bliss was heightened even in a cloudy day. The tranquility of the nature, the compatibility between human and animal, the audible silence of the autumn, were sensibly delicious. The simplicity and peace contrasted markedly with, and surely prevailed over, the cruel Machiavellianistic modern life inundated with electric gadgets and signals. 

 

The enigma of one’s choice of housing, or of life in general, is Sphinx of amorphous features. With tremendous due respect, we may reach a truce with it. Or so I hope. 