---
title: Why I Paint
excerpt: blog
author: C.S.Luc
image: 01.jpg
date: 2015-01-11 16:04:00 +0300
options: [minihead]
categories: blog
permalink: /writings01/
---

## Why I Paint

When I was a kid I really did think that people would someday cheer for me, a kind of acknowledgment of what I would do as a painter. Then, when I was in my early-twenties, I was watching a martial arts movie in a small-town theater, and when the protagonist, a young and beautiful Chinese girl, finally wedded her knight, a surprising cheer rose up from the hollow room, as if all of the silent souls were galvanized and emancipated by this beauty on the screen, and I sank into despair, because I realized, they would never do that for a painter.  There would be no matchable applaud to a painter in such a direct, personal, intimate, or crazy way. I was fully aware of the solitude, inner peace, beauty and subliminal energy that painting could bring to me. But it’s still infected with a sense of handicap; it’s lacking the raw human emotional warmth for which I was hungering. I would certainly admit that vanity played a role in my assessment then; but vanity also played a role for my being immersed with painting in the first place. I think art is not about truth and artists are dishonest to a degree. I did not have money and I wanted to make some. So I gave up painting, not to say there was abundant gift wasted, which I seriously doubt.

I was later comforted by seeing other people’s experience with struggling with their self-confidence and lives. If one can be sure of his talent and defeat the frustration without reducing the amount of  confidence, one is truly lucky. I do not think I am the lucky one in this case.  I read the court’s report on Joseph Brodsky’s trial in Russia, in which he blatantly, yet so convincingly, proclaimed that he was born a poet, a soul searching for and expressing the beauty of mankind in words and language, for himself and for all others. I was envious. I also read VG’s letters to his brother, John McPhee’s diary on writing, David Foster Wallace’s suicide note, all of which suggest the more comparable experiences I had, that the permanent fear of misjudging one’s own talent comes as a mate to your mind as a dream to your night.

Then even after I gave up painting, I was still constantly afraid of being mediocre, ultimately, in the light of my personal history. And yet at the same time I did not aspired to be recognized by anyone that I was great at this and that, except, perhaps, a great lover, by a girl I may love very much, but that will belong to another version of life. I was interested in escaping any attention, praise, recognition, and perhaps vanity by the time I reached 30. It was necessary that everything I did be good of its kind, which my father used to teach me when I was a kid. Looking back, I do think my father influenced me a great deal—he taught me chess, math and laziness if possible (certainly between him and myself, I would be the child laborer he could use). What’s most conspicuous single-handedly, is the craft he made with patience and grace, considering his obsession with poker game and chess playing. He spent weeks of time sculpting a wooden figurine and then upon finishing, he presented at our dinner table with a self-rewarding smile tattooed on the corner of his slightly opened mouth. It is that strange, private smile that has remained the core of my burning soul until today.